the latest in a three day
standoff in
Oregon hitting a small band of
self-styled militiamen against
the us-
government and its land
management
policies william Browning and
has the
story
the mail your Wildlife Refuge
sits in
the snowy high desert of
southeastern
Oregon with just a few small
buildings
for park staff and visitors it's
now
occupied by M and body and other
armed
protesters who are against
federal
control of Western ranch land
and the
treatment of 2 Oregon ranchers
and
Stephen Hammond they want to
pass on the
ranching Heritage 22 their
children into
their grandchildren and because
of that
refusal to sell their ranch
these
federal agencies began in an
attack on
this this family the heavens
were due to
report for additional jail time
in
california today for 2012
conviction of
committing arson on public lambs
but the
hands of distance themselves
from a man
who along with his father
climbing on an
ARM protest back in 2014 Nevada
against
federal and state officials last
week
emotional call to help the
Hammond organ
I feel that this is every bit it
may be
in many many ways more important
than
the bunny ranch I feel and know
that the
abuse is that of that this
family has
endured is much greater than
even the
bundy family and this is
something that
cannot be ignored on Saturday a
crowd
did protest the Hammonds
five-year jail
sentence they marched peacefully
in
Burns organ which is just 30
miles from
the mail your Wildlife Refuge
now yours
one hundred and eighty seven
thousand
acres or chrome to more than 320
bird
species it was created in 1808
by
President Theodore Roosevelt
from what
were then called quote unclaimed
government lands now members of
the
self-described militia the
newly-named
citizens for constitutional
freedom want
the land returned to avoid finna
come as
an Arizona rancher the group so
now here
we are
control without representation
one-third
of our land mass it's an empire
within
our own country
unaccountable unelected the real
powers
in the bureaucracies so far law
enforcement hasn't taken any
action at
the refuge but the FBI is
monitoring the
situation and more on this story
i'm now
joined on the phone by Amanda
pitcher of
Oregon Public Broadcasting so
I'm and I
understand you were in the
compound
yesterday and you've been
outside this
compound all day today can you
tell us a
little bit about what is the
scene like
they're absolutely so it's a
cold winter
day and this compound is
situated in
Scopus these page fresh and and
range
land really a very isolated
there are 15
that are estimated building
within the
complex and it's very quiet here
you see
a few of the protesters walking
between
building there are some women in
the
kitchen making grilled cheese
sandwiches
for the perfect but it's very
common
it's very quiet there was a
press
conference earlier today in
which the
protesters felt a little bit
more about
why they're here at the scene it
is my
comp I mean obviously we can't
call this
a standoff because there's no
one
standing in opposition to these
guys is
it really true that there is no
sign of
law enforcement there I have
seen here
law enforcement vehicles and
that are
marked at least and I've heard
nothing
from law enforcement about their
you
come near the area I I won't say
that
the protesters here are very
peaceful
and law enforcement has
indicated that
they would like it to remain
peaceful
here in a min bundy and his
supporters
say that they're they're
supporting the
Hammonds who reported to prison
in
southern california today
although the
humans have distanced themselves
a bit
from that
what is it that the bundy's and
his
supporters what do they want
well what they say is that they
would
like to see the federal lands
like this
refuge turned over to local
control they
said that they would like to
start
working the land here and
although it's
not exactly clear what that meet
at this
point I think many of them feel
that the
way that federal and are managed
is is
not appropriate and in some
cases
unconstitutional what sense of
you
gotten of what the locals
reaction to
all of this has been its been
next I
think there has been a lot of
fear about
what this could look like from
the local
community in part because he had
a word
occupation and protesting people
assume
that there could be some
violence here
but I did see some local
resident come
by and ticket your they were
welcomed
into the complex and they
thought that
they were very welcomed by the
the
protesters and not present at
all they
were initiated thing I was
actually
happening on the ground that
said I know
that many in Hardy County are
uncomfortable with having
protests here
in in this area and are are wary
of what
it could become alright
commander Peter
organ public broadcasting's
thank you
very much your welcome and
moments ago
the Hammonds officially turned
themselves in to serve that
additional
jail time